And now let's proceed with a demo where we will set up our Amazon
SageMaker instance and upload our dataset to get ready with the next
steps in the exploratory data analysis.
First, you need to make sure that you have access to AWS subscription.
Amazon provides a free subscription that works for our course purposes.
You can create a one by going here.
Then,
we will navigate to the AWS Management Console and sign in
with the registered email and password.
Then, I will be presented with the Amazon dashboard.
In the search box, we will type SageMaker and chose Amazon SageMaker.
After we chose Amazon SageMaker,
we will be presented with the SageMaker dashboard,
and on the left,
you can see there are several options that enable
machine learning functionality, such as labeling using Ground Truth,
Notebook instances and Git repositories,
training our algorithms, inferencing, and some AWS Marketplace features,
such as community algorithms.
Let's just focus on setting up our notebooks.
Click on Notebook instances on the left under the Notebook tree element.
We will be presented with a window containing all
our currently running notebooks.
There is no one running currently.
Let's create a new one.
Click on Create a notebook instance.
Now we will need to fill in bunch of details.
Notebook instance name.
Let's call it HousesPricesDataAnalysisInstance.
I know it's a long name, but I like to be precise.
The second option is the Notebook instance type.
This is an important field as it tells how much power we
will need for our machine learning tests.
Amazon provides many different types of machine learning
instances that differ in virtual CPU, GPU,
memory, and network performance.
You can follow the shown link to know more.
You can leave it as ml.t2.medium.
It works for us.
The third option is Elastic Inference.
This helps if we want to get a higher performance for deep learning models.
We don't need that for our model.
Leave it as none.
There are other advanced options,
whether we want to grant SageMaker access to S3 packet,
to enable root access.
Do we need to attach the notebook instance to a VPC or use a Git repo.
We need none of them, and I would proceed and create the notebook instance.
Then, we will need to wait some time until our instance is created.
As you can see, the Status is Pending.
And in few minutes, my instance is up and running and showing Status InService,
Click on Open Jupyter to open your Jupyter Notebook instance in AWS.
As you can see in the URL,
there is a designated URL for your Jupyter Notebook instance.
Let's now upload our dataset to our notebook instance.
Click on Upload, and I have chosen the AmesHousing dataset,
and I will upload it.
I'll click Upload. And now click on New, and notice that Amazon
SageMaker notebook instance supports different types of
notebooks. Choose conda_pyton3, and now a new Python 3
Anaconda‑based notebook will be instantiated.
It is just similar to the regular Jupyter Notebooks you use to work
with. Change the title to HousesPricesDataAnalysis. After we have
changed the title to HousesPricesDataAnalysis,
we can start typing some Python code.
Let's import a few Python libraries that we will need to data analysis effort.
Firstly, I will add import numpy.
And for those of you who don't know NumPy, it's a Python packet
that allows to do mathematical operations over arrays. You can
learn about it more in my course here,
at Pluralsight, Building Your First Machine Learning Solution.
Then I will import pandas,
and I will import a certain function from Matplotlib. Pandas
helps in certain that analysis features,
while Matplotlib makes it easy for us to do some plotting.
And now let me run this line. Good.
Let's now load our data to our pandas data frame. And that's run it.
Let's see the first five lines in our data. And this
is done using the head function.
And here is it.
As you can see,
SageMaker notebooks work more or less the same as regular Jupyter Notebooks. We are done with preparing our Amazon SageMaker instance now.